# Welcome to Unconventional Cryptography!

There are many students who struggle to understand Cryptology (The study of Cryptography and Cryptanalysis) for a wide range of reasons. Many of the books available are meant as reference books for graduate students; Online resources are primarily theoretical and don't teach practical skills, and the sea of mathematics drowns students before they learn how to swim. In this course I'm going to guide you through field of Cryptology, helping you gain a kind of intuition about Cryptography and hopefully getting you to experience that magical 'I can do it!' moment.

"**But I don't know much mathematics**": That's okay, I won't bombarde you with confusing symbols - the same content will be described and explained to you, with the symbols and rigorous proof available to you if you wish.

In the field of Cryptography you're going to hear people repeat two well known dogmatic lines, the first is "Crypto is hard". So is Computer Science yet plenty of students stick through that content. Yes Cryptography is a rich and complex field, but in the same way that you learn about the medical field to be able to heal yourself and others with first aid, you can learn useful skills and information from Cryptology without undertaking a PhD in the topic.

"Crypto is hard" also refers to the difficulty in getting a correct design / implementation. Once you learn about side channel attacks you'll come to realise that even slightest hair out of place can render an entire cipher breakable, it's quite terrifying. This is why people put a lot of effort into creating these libraries of Cryptographic functions for others to use which have been tested and are generally accepted as correct (OpenSSL, BoringSSL, LibSodium just to name a few).

This leads us into our second dogmatic line: "Never roll your own crypto". When you design or implement your own cryptography it is most likely going to be incorrect or weak enough for someone else to break. Bruce Schneier, a fairly famous Cryptographer once said "any person can invent a security system so clever that she or he can't think of how to break it.", but a skilled attacker probably can break it. So if you're building a production system, which deals with real, important, needs to be protected data, use Cryptography which has been accepted and tested from a Cryptographic library.

But I want to make something very clear, do not let "Never roll your own crypto" scare you from experimenting at home, or even trying to create your own better version of OpenSSL! Cryptography suffers from a usability problem, and the only way we can solve this is getting a diverse set of people to think about and build Cryptography libraries that they want to use. Over time this message which started with good intentions has twisted into a somewhat harmful absolute statement which frightens and puts off newcomers to Cryptography, so just remember that it only applies in certain situations.

A lot of people think that Cryptography is like magic, and while Cryptography is mathematical, logical and well defined, there still exists this magical quality about it. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts: when a cryptographic system is well put together the things that you can do and guarantee are so astounding, it's akin to magic. This is not just from a novice's perspective, even seasoned Cryptologists like Dan Boneh refer to Cryptography as magical. It truly is a special field and I'm glad to be able to go on this journey with you to experience the magic of Cryptography.

**Note**: Sometimes when I say Cryptography I mean Cryptology - It's a fairly common (but not encouraged) thing to do.
